# CS330_CompVisualization
<ins>How do I approach designing software?</ins>  
This course has allowed me to delve into creating and modeling a 3D scene based on an existing 2D image.  I learned to create basic objects, orient them and place them in specific positions, add textures to the objects, add material lighting characteristics to the objects, create lighting for the scene, and provide user input via keyboard and mouse inputs.  My design process was to go step by step and create one object at a time, get acclimated to OpenGL structure, then do the same for each object.  Using this "staircase" method, I am able to take large, complex projects and break them apart into manageable chunks to complete the task, which will be helpful in future projects.  

<ins>How do I approach developing programs?</ins>  
When developing programs, I initially identify what is required of the program, such as customer needs and user views.  After collecting all requirements, I identify what is needed to run the program, build a workflow of the order of operations to complete the program, then start building from the beginning while testing throughout the process.  While developing my scene, iteration was necessary to ensure I did not break the application with any new additions.  At the beginning of the project milestones, I was completing the required portions of the assignments, but I realized it was easier to complete what was required of the assignment along with completing it for the whole scene each time;  this allowed me to iterate each process multiple times and solidify the requirements to ensure a working product.  Going through everything early made the submission of a completed project much easier, as all the hard work was already done ahead of time.  

<ins>How can computer science help me in reaching my goals?</ins>  
I currently work as a radio programmer, which utilized quite a few concepts from computer science. I want to transfer fields towards data analytics, which requires knowledge of many areas of computer science.  Computational graphics and visualization helped me learn the usefulness of understanding data manipulation from a more broad perspective rather than based on one object.  Adjusting the whole scene based on camera position and orientation helped me understand that all areas of data have the ability to be manipulated together, which is useful for data analyics.  The skills gained from this course, such as an understanding of cross products, will help me with more complex calculations in the future.
